So back over here in CloudWatch,
we could take a closer look at the invocations of our Lambda
function. Now, because there's three here, let's go ahead and
pick the first two initially,
and it looks like this is the first function invocation
that I ran against my website when I still had my name
configured as the expected value.
Now,
if I go back up to the log group and look at the log
stream that happened right after that, about a minute later,
it looks like this is the one that failed the check,
and we can see that based on the errors that are
recorded inside of the logs in here.
So how should we proactively notify ourselves when things like this fail?
Well, one of the easiest ways to do this with Lambda is to set up a
CloudWatch alarm that is related to these logs and the metrics that
are generated from them. So let's go over to the Alarms section
inside of CloudWatch here, and let's create a new alarm.
Now, when I click Create a new alarm, I'm going to need to specify a metric
to create the alarm that's associated with the function.
So I'll select a metric here,
and I need to pick where I want to get this metric from, so
I'm going to search for Lambda right here.
And then I'll be able to find metrics related to each
Lambda function by their function name.
So in this case, I see there's the function name of lambda‑canary,
which is the one we're working with,
and I'm curious about the metric name. Now, in this case,
I want to know if there's any errors, so I'll have to scroll through
some of these different metrics that we see here.
And until I find errors, I can click the checkbox right next to it.
So, now that I've hit the checkbox here,
it's highlighted all the errors that have happened on my
function in the last few periods of time.
Now, I'm going to just zoom in quite a bit here to the 1‑hour window,
and this is showing me that pretty recently, within the last 5
to 10 minutes, I had an error from earlier.
Now that's because I intentionally triggered that one error before,
and there haven't been any errors since.
It looks a little bit weird because the count is 0.333, and that's
because it's one out of three function invocations.
And if I wanted to change this,
I could go to the Graphed metrics section here. Rather than
having this be an average of the errors of the period, I could
change this to a different metric.
Now, if I change it to Sum,
this is going to be a bit more helpful to tell me how many errors are
happening within a period. It looks like in the period around 4:10
there was a single error, and then later,
towards 4:15 and 4:20 there haven't been any errors yet.
So this will be more straightforward when I want to set up
an alert for this function.
So let's go ahead and select this metric for the purposes of creating our alarm,
and then we'll be able to configure it a little bit further.
We could set up a different name for this metric or
change other configuration around.
Similarly, with the period that we're looking at,
we could specify larger or smaller periods as appropriate to
whatever we need in terms of our alerting.
I'm just going to leave it on 5 minutes for right now.
But maybe if Globomantics was really concerned about
getting instantaneous information,
we could start to configure it with smaller periods just in
case anything else came in in those periods.
So I'm going to close that out now, and we can go down to the Conditions here.
Now we could use CloudWatch Alarms' anomaly detection to see if there's
any anomalies in what's being reported, but instead,
I'm just going to stick with the static threshold.
And I'm going to say that whenever errors are greater than whatever I
define as the threshold, I want to be notified immediately.
Now,
the threshold value I want in this case is going to be 0 because I
want to know if there's anything greater than 0, to let me know
immediately so that I can immediately check the website and see if
there's any issues with it.
I could do additional configuration by clicking the drop‑down here,
and this would allow me to determine how many datapoints I
need in order to have the alarm actually go into an alarm
state and notify me. Also, I can specify what I want missing data to mean.
So, if there's missing data from the alert, do I want to be
alerted immediately, or in this case, am I not really concerned,
and I just want to treat it as missing, so neither good nor bad.
I'm going to leave all this additional configuration as
is so that whenever I see any datapoints out of one
datapoint going into a bad state,
I want to be notified, and I also don't want to worry
about if there's any missing data, for whatever reason.
So let's click Next here,
and we'll move on to the next stage of configuring this alarm.
If I scroll back up to the top here, I want a notification for this alarm.
Now, in this case,
I just want to be notified whenever this goes into an Alarm state
instead of an OK or an INSUFFICIENT_DATA state.
And then I want to specify how I want to be notified.
So I could either select an existing,
Simple Notification Service topic, or I could create a new one. In this
case, because this account is completely new and I don't have any SNS
topic created, I'm going to go ahead and click Create a new topic. Now,
it's going to create a new topic for me,
and then I can say which email addresses I'd like to be
able to get emails from SNS, so I'm going to add in my
email now. With my email added in, I can go ahead and click Create topic.
After doing that,
the SNS topic should be created, and we can configure it with our alarm.
But I still need to finish creating this alarm. So I can
scroll down and click the Next button, and then I can add a
name and description for this alarm.
We'll call this our canaryAlarm, and then we'll add a description, which
will just be the exact same, and says canaryAlarm.
Next, we'll click the Next button and finally preview this alarm and create it.
Now, this alarm is going to end up triggering whenever the blue line,
which is the count of errors, goes above the red line,
which is our top limitation of how many errors we could expect within 5 minutes.
So, it looks like this would've triggered for that single
error that I intentionally created earlier.
And that's exactly what we want, so we should be
happy with how this is set up now.
So I'm going to scroll down, and let's go ahead and skim through the rest
of the configuration and finally click Create alarm.
So now our alarm is created, and we've successfully created an
SNS topic to send things to us; however,
SNS isn't going to send messages to our email until the
subscription is actually confirmed.
So if I scroll over to the right here,
you'll see that the actions for this alarm are still pending confirmation.
You'll also see that Amazon is reminding us to confirm this if I close
these other two notifications out inside of the AWS SNS console. So
let me click View SNS Subscriptions here,
and let's go ahead and confirm that email.
So this pending confirmation is for pluralsight.fernando@gmail.com,
and what this means is I need to go to my email and confirm that I'm
okay getting alerts for this alarm.
So I've gone ahead and loaded up my pluralsight.fernando@gmail.com email here.
Now there's nothing in this inbox yet,
so I'm going to go back to the Simple Notification Service, make sure I
have the pluralsight.fernando@gmail.com endpoint selected,
and then I'm going to click Request confirmation.
So this should've sent something off to my email to make sure I can confirm
that I want to get emails whenever something goes wrong.
So going back to pluralsight.fernando,
we should see this email after we refresh the page.
So now that I've refreshed my inbox,
it looks like I got my initial notification here about 6
minutes ago, and then I also got the notification that I was
just asking to be resent to this email.
I can use this second one or the first one to
confirm my notification subscription.
Now, once I've done this,
I want to be careful not to click the click here to unsubscribe button,
even though it looks like that might be what I'm supposed to do next.
And once this subscription is confirmed,
I should be able to close that out and go back to the Simple
Notification Service console, and then I can refresh this page
to see whether or not the pending confirmation will change from
that to a Confirmed status.
It looks like in this case I am now confirmed.
And if I go back to the CloudWatch management console,
I should be able to refresh this screen as well and see that
now this alarm is all set up and is no longer pending
confirmation in the Actions section.
So you'll see that this canaryAlarm is currently okay with 0 of
1 datapoints reporting errors in 5 minutes.
Now, this is great.
Hopefully, my function keeps running and always is in this state.
But if we're really worried and we want to make sure
this is going to send us an alarm,
let's go back to our Lambda function and then click the Configuration section.
And instead of selecting the CloudWatch Events that
we just selected and configured,
we're going to go back to the lambda‑canary and click that, and let's
scroll down and change the expected value one more time.
In this case,
I'm just going to add some gibberish in here that I don't
think will appear on my page in this sequence,
and I'm going to save this function,
and then let's test it. Now, this should trigger an alarm
because we don't have this text on my website, and
because this is giving an error,
we should be able to go back over to the CloudWatch management console and wait
for a few minutes here while that data propagates through the CloudWatch logs
and the CloudWatch metrics and triggers this alarm.
So let's wait for a minute while this happens.
So I waited maybe 30 seconds and refreshed this page one more time, and my
canaryAlarm was starting to show up in the alarm stage.
So because of this,
I went back to my email inbox here, and I had a new email
letting me know that currently, the alarm that I just set
up is in the alarm stage.
This would be the exact same information that we might want to get if our
website was down and would tell us how we could start to debug the problem
by going directly to the AWS management console and taking a look at this
alarm. There might be other remediation steps that we'd have inside of our
organization if we knew this website was down and maybe wanted to know
more about how to fix it. So nice work in creating your first Lambda
function.
Let's go ahead and review what we've done in this module.
Congratulations! In this module, we've learned a lot of different
information. We reviewed Lambda's technical limitations and what it can and
can't be used for architecturally, and we also learned some workarounds for
these limitations that we could apply if needed.
We also deployed our first Lambda function inside of the AWS console
using a modified AWS blueprint for the Lambda canary, and we set up a
learning and monitoring on top of that Lambda canary so we can be
notified whenever something fails.
Now that we've practiced some of these essentials,
what's next? We'll be tackling a more complicated example in the
next module where we'll learn how to integrate Lambda with third‑party APIs, so let's get to it.